Inheritance: subclasses inherit from/extend superclasses

Methods can override less-specific definitions; variables aren't over-ridden (they have no special behaviour) but subclasses can specify new ones.

Private methods are not inheritable

Variables can use superclass types instead of the specific type.
i.e.
Dog myDog = new Dog();        - valid
Animal myAnimal = new Dog();  - valid - a dog isa animal
Dog myDog = new Animal();     - not valid - an animal is not necessarily a dog

That's polymorphism ^
This allows, e.g. an array of pseudo-different types: a dog, a cat, a giraffe, etc. because you can just declare the array type as "animal"

Over-riding a method is when a subclass provides the same method with the same arguments & return types as the super
Over-loading a method is when you have two methods with the same name but different arguments. These can be declared in the same class - no inheritance/polymorphism required

Interfaces are abstract classes
Abstract classes can't be instantiated
e.g. a Dog should be a type of Animal, but one shouldn't be able to create an Animal object - so mark it as an abstract class. Animal is abstract, Dog is concrete.

Can also declare abstract methods. An abstract method can only exist in an abstract class. It must be supplied by over-riding it in the first concrete subclass.

All classes inherit from class Object, which supplies defaults like equals and toString.

Multiple inheritance isn't allowed. To finesse it, use interfaces - 100% abstract classes.
Define: public interface Name {}
Implement: public class Thing extends Parent implements Name {}

interfaces only allow abstract methods so no risk of two parents defining the same method - they can both demand that the subclass implement it, so all good. Basically Java equivalents of roles/mixins. Can implement multiple interfaces.
